Introduction
============

Schizophrenia is a mental disorder with five categories of symptoms (for a review see van Os & Kapur, 2009):

Psychosis (including hallicunations and delusions)

Changes in drive and motivation

Cognitive changes (e.g., memory difficulties)

Depressive symptoms

Manic symptoms

People with schizophrenia may suffer from "hearing voices" (which are not really there). People might think others try to control their thoughts.
Interesting BigThink short video introducing schizophrenia. Also check this interesting schizophrenia simulator video.
Schizophrenia is diagnosed in 0.3 to 0.66% of the population (i.e., lifetime prevalence). It is typically diagnosed in the late teens or early adulthood and occurs more frequently in men than women.
Important for the O-LIFE scale is that various researchers have proposed that these symptoms occur in the normal/healthy population as well. The occurance of such symptoms is known as schizotypy, and the O-LIFE questionnaire measures such symptoms. The idea is that everybody can have some of these symptoms without having a mental disorder.

Nevertheless, psychological research shows that there are relations between schizotypy scores in the normal population and certain psychological problems, such as face recognition (Hills, Eaton, Pake, 2016).

There is a shorter yet reliable version of the O-LIFE questionnaire with 43 yes/no questions which is presented below.

Details about the short O-LIFE scales
The short O-LIFE has 4 subscales.

The descriptions of the 4 scales below are literally copied from the Mason paper (2005), p.295.
Unusual Experiences — describing perceptual aberrations, magical thinking, and hallucinations. It is phenomenologically related to the positive symptoms of psychosis, and measures a trait often termed positive schizotypy.

Cognitive Disorganisation — items that tap aspects of poor attention and concentration, as well as poor decision-making and social anxiety. It can be seen to reflect thought disorder and other disorganised aspects of psychosis.

Introvertive Anhedonia — items that describe a lack of enjoyment from social and physical sources of pleasure, as well as avoidance of intimacy. It can be seen to reflect weakened forms of negative symptoms, so-called negative schizotypy, or alternatively the schizoid temperament.

Impulsive Nonconformity — items describing impulsive, anti-social, and eccentric forms of behaviour, often suggesting a lack of self-control.

The table below shows the scale and the average scores for men and women in a test with hundreds of volunteer twins (average age 47). The table below is based on the paper by Mason and colleagues (2005), page 295, Table 2.

Subscale					Possible score range	Men		Women
Unusual Experiences 		0-12 points				3.17 	3.39
Cognitive Disorganisation  	0-11 points				4.28	4.44
Introvertive Anhedonia  	0-10 points 			2.80	2.40
Impulsive Nonconformity  	0-10 points				2.70	2.59



References
==========

The test itself:

Mason, O., Linney, Y., & Claridge, G. (2005). Short scales for measuring schizotypy. Schizophrenia Research, 78, 293-296.

Further reading:

van Os, J. & Kapur, S. (2009). Schizophrenia. The Lancet, 374, 635-645.

Hills, P.J., Eaton, E., & Pake, J.M. (2016). Correlations between psychometric schizotypy, scan path length, fixations on the eyes and face recognition. The Quarterly Journal of Experimental Psychology, 69, 611-625.
