Introduction
============

Humor is important for human emotion, socialisation, emotion, and coping. Although laughing is universal, and even common in babies (although we don’t know exactly what they are laughing about, of course), there are jokes that require complex thought and reasoning (cognitive abilities).

Definitions
Sense of humor: For example how much people laugh about and appreciate jokes.

Style of humor: For example sarcastic, self-defeating, etc.

Anyone knows that that people differ greatly in their sense of humor and styles of humor. A sense of humor is an important psychological trait, because it is relevant to how well people can cope with stress and difficulities, and it plays an important role in success in social interaction, including romantic attraction (a sense of humor is an attractive trait). Further, there are more male than female comedians, suggesting that biological factors play some role in peoples ability to be funny. Altogether, a fascinating topic!

Interesting video about humor by psychologist Peter McGraw
Humor is a concept with multiple dimensions, which can be part of different types of psychological traits (Martin). According to Martin (2003), sense of humor can be conceptualized as:

a cognitive ability (you need to understand jokes, etc)
an aesthetic response (you need to like certain types of jokes)
an habitual behavior pattern (some people have the habit or laughing often, or of telling many jokes)
an emotion-related temperament trait
an attitude
a coping strategy or defense mechanism

The use of humor is not always related to healthy psychological behavior. Some forms of humor are, while others are not (e.g., sarcasm). One of the special features of the HSQ is that it measures two positive and two negative dimensions of humor:

Affiliative humor
Self-enhancing humor
Aggressive humor
Self-defeating humor

For each dimension, there are eight 7-item questions.
In a study with 470 men and 725 women, the following averages were found (Martin et al., 2003):

Dimension					Possible range		Total		Men		Women
Affiliative Humor 			8-56 				46.4 		47.3	46.0
Self-enhancing humor 		8-56 				37.3		37.9 	36.8
Aggressive humor 			8-56				28.5		32.3	26.3
Self-defeating Humor 		8-56 				25.9		27.8	24.5

For each dimension, men scored (statistically significant) higher than women.




References
==========

Martin, R.A., Puhlik-Doris, P., Larsen, G., Gray, J., and Weir, K. (2003). Individual differences in uses of humor and their relation to psychological well-being: Development of the Humor Styles Questionnaire. Journal of Research in Personality, 37, 48-75.